
Tobias Pfandzelter

+49 172 960 8059  
tobias@pfandzelter.com
www.pfandzelter.com

Third-year Computer Science PhD candidate in the field of distributed and scalable software systems. Current research interests include edge and fog computing, particularly in the context of novel LEO satellite communication systems.

Education

Technische Universität Berlin
Berlin, Germany
Sep. 2019 -- present
Computer Science, Doctoral Degree

Center for Cultural Studies on Science and Technology in China (CCST)
Berlin, Germany
Mar. 2020
China Master Label

Tongji University Shanghai
Shanghai, China
Sep. 2017
"Smart Shanghai" Summer School

Technische Universität Berlin
Berlin, Germany
Oct. 2017 -- Aug. 2019
Computer Science, Master of Science
Distributed Systems and Networks Focus
Grade 1.0 (equiv. 4.0 GPA)

Technische Universität Berlin
Berlin, Germany
Oct. 2014 -- Mar. 2018
Computer Science, Bachelor of Science

Select Peer-Reviewed Publications

T. Pfandzelter and D. Bermbach, "Edge (of the Earth) Replication: Optimizing Content Delivery in Large LEO Satellite Communication Networks," in Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE/ACM 21st International Symposium on Cluster, Cloud and Internet Computing (CCGrid), Melbourne, Australia, May 2021.

T. Pfandzelter, J. Hasenburg, and D. Bermbach, "Towards a Computing Platform for the LEO Edge," in Proceedings of ACM EdgeSys ’21: 4th International Workshop on Edge Systems, Analytics and Networking, Online, United Kingdom, Apr. 2021.

T. Pfandzelter and D. Bermbach, "tinyFaaS: A Lightweight FaaS Platform for Edge Environments," in Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE International Conference on Fog Computing (ICFC), Sydney, Australia, Apr. 2020, pp. 17--24.

Experience

Research Associate
Mobile Cloud Computing Research Group
Technische Universität Berlin & Einstein Center Digital Future
Berlin, Germany
Sep. 2019 -- present

-    Responsible for the FogStore project, which aims to develop a data management middleware for the edge and cloud.
-    Extensive development of open-source distributed systems software prototypes in Go and Python.
-    Authored and published several peer-reviewed research papers, posters, and articles.
-    Supervising student assistants, student projects, and student theses.

Systems Administrator
audibene GmbH
Berlin, Germany
Mar. 2015 -- Aug. 2019

-    Scaled IT infrastructure for a start up from 200 to more than 1,000 employees globally.
-    Research, procurement, development, and administration of internal software and tools while working with different teams across the organization.
-    Agile management of IT projects to meet customer needs in a fast-paced environment.
-    Development and administration of a hybrid cloud and global enterprise network.

IT Intern
Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetränke AG
Sep. 2014
Berlin, Germany

-    Learned about IT structures and processes in a large corporation.
-    Managed my own small project to develop software for internal use.

Technical Skills

Programming: Go (highly proficient), Python, JavaScript, HTML/CSS (proficient), Java, C#
Technologies: Docker, Linux, Networking, Web & Internet, AWS, GCP, Microsoft Azure

Languages

German: Native
English: Fluent
Chinese: Basic